Add Week 38: Commitment before accuracy post (#42)
rdjpalmer/website: src/posts/week-38-2020-commitment-before-accuracy.md

---
layout: post
title: "Week 38, 2020: Commitment before accuracy"
date: 2020-09-23
slug: "/week-38-2020-commitment-before-accuracy"
description: >-
  Consider committing a direction before worrying about the accuracy of it. You can always changes paths later.
hasTweetEmbed: false
---

## On life and writing

It's been perhaps the hardest week on the writing front for some time. I’ve spent the week writing and rewriting the same piece, trying to cajole it into something I’m happy with.
As I write one of the final drafts of this week’s review, I’m relearning some lessons all over again:

I won’t always like what I write. It’s not an issue. It will be frustrating. And it’s a fact. If the day comes where I do, then I’m probably letting my standards slip, rather than writing anything of value.

I don’t always have to publish what I write. It would be great if everything was up to scratch, but it won’t always be the case. My commitment is to publish something at least once a week, but why publish something I’m unhappy with? Better to chalk it up as a loss and keep moving. The most important part is that I show up and do the work.

## On goal setting

> Over the last couple of weeks I’ve been talking about goals with various people. Member of my team at TransferWise, people I’m close with. People who are unsure of what they want from the future, or how to get there.

Author: ```suggestion
Over the last couple of weeks I’ve been talking about goals with various people. Members of my team at TransferWise, people I’m close with. People who are unsure of what they want from the future, or how to get there.
```

> Goal setting should be easy. They're a tool to get you moving in the right direction. That hard part, should be achieving them.

Author: ```suggestion
Goal setting should be easy. They're a tool to get you moving in the right direction. The hard part, should be achieving them.
```

> Goal setting should be easy. The hard part should be achieving them. Goals needn’t be complicated. At best, they’re a simple tool to get you moving in the right direction.

Author: ```suggestion
Goal setting should be easy. They're a tool to get you moving in the right direction. That hard part, should be achieving them.
```

> To understand how to use them as a tool, first you must start at the end. Interviews love the question “where do you see yourself in five years”? It’s not much of an interview question because it’s too easy to game. But it is a great opportunity for self reflection.

Author: ```suggestion
To understand how to use them as a tool, first you must start at the end. Interviewers love the question “where do you see yourself in five years”? It’s not much of an interview question because it’s too easy to game. It is however, a great opportunity for self reflection.
```

> By starting with a question like this (I call them seed questions) you can start to understand how to see your future self. By having a vision of your future, you can work backwards to what you need to do now to make it happen.

Author: ```suggestion
By starting with a question like this (I call them seed questions) you can start to understand how you see your future self. By having a vision of your future, you can work backwards to what you need to do now to make it happen.
```

Let’s say you want to own a house. In the UK, you’ll need either a 5% or 10% deposit to secure a mortgage. By knowing these facts, you can set a saving goal. A saving goal enables you to evaluate your finances. Evaluating your finances allows you to make adjustments so you can reach the saving goal in good time.

> It’s easy to say that you don’t know what you want from the next five years. But I’d bet you have a better idea of that than you think. I’d be surprised if you’ve never come out with “I’d need a holiday” or “wouldn’t it be amazing to live in New York”. That’s a starting point.

Author: ```suggestion
It’s easy to say that you don’t know what you want from the next five years. But I’d bet you have a better idea of that than you think. I’d be surprised if you’ve never come out with “I need a holiday” or “wouldn’t it be amazing to live in New York”. That’s a starting point.
```

If you’re unsure, break the question down into smaller questions. Where will you live? What sort of people are you friends with? What job do you have? How much money do you earn? You can at least answer these.

What you say might sound unrealistic. But as Rolf Potts proves in Vagabonding, things tend to be a lot more accessible than you think. It’s the ambiguity that makes it seem hard.

> Perhaps you’re unsure of your answers. Maybe you question whether they’re the right goals for you. That’s sort of the secret. A goal is better than no goal. No goal is a goal in itself: to maintain the status quo.

Author: ```suggestion
Perhaps you’re unsure of your answers. Maybe you question whether they’re the right goals for you. That’s the secret. A goal is better than no goal. No goal is a goal in itself: to maintain the status quo.
```

> Committing to something now doesn’t mean you can’t change your mind later. Committing to something is the fastest way to learn whether it’s right or wrong.

Author: ```suggestion
Committing to them is the fastest way to learn whether your they're right or wrong.

Committing to them now doesn’t mean you can’t change your mind later. 
```

### How to set goals

> I didn't want to cover the actual process of setting goals. There are far more qualified people out there who can help you there. Here's some of my fav articles on the subject:

Author: ```suggestion
I didn't want to cover the actual process of setting goals. There are far more qualified people out there who can help you. Here's some of my fav articles on the subject:
```

To understand how to use them as a tool, first you must start at the end. Interviewers love the question “where do you see yourself in five years”? It’s not much of an interview question because it’s too easy to game. It is however, a great opportunity for self reflection.

By starting with a question like this (I call them seed questions) you can start to understand how you see your future self. By having a vision of your future, you can work backwards to what you need to do now to make it happen.

Let’s say you want to own a house. In the UK, you’ll need either a 5% or 10% deposit to secure a mortgage. By knowing these facts, you can set a saving goal. A saving goal enables you to evaluate your finances. Evaluating your finances allows you to make adjustments so you can reach the saving goal in good time.

It’s easy to say that you don’t know what you want from the next five years. But I’d bet you have a better idea of that than you think. I’d be surprised if you’ve never come out with “I need a holiday” or “wouldn’t it be amazing to live in New York”. That’s a starting point.

> If you’re unsure, break the question down into smaller questions. Where will you live? What sort of people are you friends with? What job do you have? How much money do you earn? You can at least answer these.

Author: ```suggestion
If you’re unsure, break the question down into smaller questions. Where will you live? What sort of people will you be friends with? What job will you have? How much money will you earn? You can at least answer these.
```

> What you say might sound unrealistic. But as Rolf Potts proves in Vagabonding, things tend to be a lot more accessible than you think. It’s the ambiguity that makes it seem hard.

Author: ```suggestion
What you say might sound unrealistic. But as Rolf Potts proves in Vagabonding, things tend to be a lot more accessible than you think. It’s the ambiguity that makes them seem unobtainable.
```
